# Random-Schedule-Generator
**Why?** I started this code because I work front desk at a hotel and it can get very busy with many time consuming tasks. My manager works to create the front desk schedule each week depending on employees' availability, number of check-ins/outs, occupancy, requests off and many other things. She does not have much help as we are a fairly small team at the moment so she has to do many tasks by herself. I began to think of things that could possibly help her with her workload and the first thing that came to mind was a random schedule generator. This would at least alleviate some stress by giving her more time to focus on other tasks with one less thing on her plate. 

**How does it work?** I knew that I needed 2 main parts of code; one part that takes in the employees names and availability and another part that generates the random scheule based on specific parameters. The first part of the code allows the user to input each employee and their availability for each day of the week. Then the random schedule generator takes in each employee and their availability and randomizes the scheudle based on the number of employee availability and number of check-ins/outs. The code ensures no one is working more than 5 days. It takes the number of checkins/outs and if they are greater than 70 for the specific day, it will schedule 2 people for morning depending on check outs and 2 people for evening depending on check-ins. If they are under 70 it will only schedule 1 person. There will always be 1 mid shift employee scheduled for each day. This generator only accounts for regular front desk agents (no managers and no overnight employees). The shifts accounted for are 

**Any errors?** I made sure to account for possible issues when inputting the employees' data. When the user is asked if they are available on a specific day of the week, they have to type "y" or "n". If they do not, it will provide an error and ask them the question again. If the user inputs "n" it will go to the next day of the week. If they put "y" it will ask them what times they are available. They have a list of options that print above the question and if they do not choose one of them or mispell it, then it will print an error and ask them if they want to add another time.  They are also unable to choose the same time more than once. I have a few versions of my generator and want to continue tweaking it and building on it.

**Any future plans?** I want for this code to be user friendly. I want to be able to make changes to the employee list as needed and possibly account for holidays, requests off, add managers, and overnight employees. I will let my manager play with the code to give me any feedback since this is made to make her job easier. 

**mathmodeling_project.py** (this code has both the code for the employee information and the schedule generator)

**employees.py** (this code seperates the previous code and only includes the portion for taking in employee information)

**schedule_genorator2.py** (this code is the second portion of the code which generates the schedule)
